<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="yes"?><rss version="2.0" xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"><channel><title>Minutes on CAA/SSLA</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/</link><description>Recent content in Minutes on CAA/SSLA</description><generator>Hugo -- gohugo.io</generator><language>en</language><lastBuildDate>Mon, 04 Jul 2022 00:00:00 +0000</lastBuildDate><atom:link href="https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/index.xml" rel="self" type="application/rss+xml"/><item><title>21st regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-07-04/</link><pubDate>Mon, 04 Jul 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-07-04/</guid><description>We had a busy and productive meeting today, where we explored how exactly the teaching material map can be set up on our website. We made some good progress and now have a working prototype. Please see the respective repository on GitHub if you&amp;rsquo;re interested. Let me know if you do not know where to look or if you do not have access.</description></item><item><title>20th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-06-13/</link><pubDate>Mon, 13 Jun 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-06-13/</guid><description>news: new discord channel for computational archaeology: https://discord.com/invite/Z9UXwjASM5 update on CAA: we&amp;rsquo;ve got a (lightening talk) session #S15 workshop on Git and Github has been submitted chapter meeting Germany/Netherlands CfP until 1st of July takes place October 5th-6th teaching materials list google doc: finalise: tagging see whether the tutorials are complete with info so far add more edges to go on the map as routes teaching materials map (https://github.com/sslarch/MapofComputationalArchaeology): access needed via the github of SSLARCH can be exported as png tiles need to look whether the github server needs any infrastructure to properly work with leaflet to properly display the tiles lists- group to dos in filling the data base: Zack: tools used, programming, short description, topic, open archeo tags Sophie: Authors and year created, language edges between cities: with direction from easier to more complicated todo Jim: Netlogo learning paths todo Sophie: starts on R learning paths would it be sensible to create a script that takes the tags according to the maps group to automatically place the &amp;ldquo;tutorial-cities&amp;rdquo;?</description></item><item><title>19th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-05-02/</link><pubDate>Mon, 02 May 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-05-02/</guid><description>9 ppl attended
Conferences, meetings and sessions CAA2022: Our SIG SSLA session has 5(+3?) submissions, which are now all in review. There is still no way to submit workshops and we therefore still haven&amp;rsquo;t submitted ours. SIG activities Teaching material list: Sophie Schmidt and others started to work on a unified tagging vocabulary for the available list. Clemens Schmid and Robert Bischoff came up with a creative solution to visualize the material in a fun and engaging way (Details omitted from the minutes).</description></item><item><title>18th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-04-04/</link><pubDate>Mon, 04 Apr 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-04-04/</guid><description>9 ppl attended
Agenda further develop the SIG SSLA teaching materials list: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1oiOaKQu5sqj0IV99PY7Qr1FpvQ0QaEqH1pMKK9uDALw/edit#gid=0 short intro of rchaeologists resources by Bjorn kept simple to not overwhelm beginners will add resources to archaeology chapter very focused simple md page discussion about teaching materials list include simple non-archaeology specific introductions to
that keep being updated e.g. data carpentries material topics
R Python Bash Git Netlogo idea: create an opinionated graph, in a way a decision tree</description></item><item><title>17th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-03-07/</link><pubDate>Mon, 07 Mar 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-03-07/</guid><description>9 ppl attended
Organisational matters Discussion on structure and content of the regular SIG-SSLA meetings Ideas in the conversation The current monday date is an issue for some people, but there is no obvious need for another meeting time survey The SIG-SSLA meeting will most likely always stay a rather small event, due to the limited total size of the computational archaeology community The group&amp;rsquo;s practical activitis should be more of a focus: e.</description></item><item><title>16th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-02-07/</link><pubDate>Mon, 07 Feb 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-02-07/</guid><description>5 ppl attended
Conferences, meetings and sessions EAA2022: There are a number of sessions relevant for computational archaeologists. The SIG-SSLA twitter team has compiled a thread listing some of them CAA2022: The CfP will open during the week commencing 14th February 2022 and end on March 21st. Consider to join the SIG-SSLA workshop or submit a paper to the related session SIG activities Ben Marwick Cran Task View proposal Due to a recent change in the way CTVs are submitted, it may be possible now to create one dedicated to archaeology Ben Marwick has prepared a proposal here This does not interfere with open-archaeo, which serves as a software database, whereas the CTV would be an R-specific guide or entry point One issue of the current proposal is, that many archaeology-related R packages are not on CRAN Contributions are welcome Next meeting: Monday, March 7, 2022 The Show&amp;amp;Tell by Florian Thiery proposed for this meeting had to be moved to the the next one in March</description></item><item><title>15th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-01-10/</link><pubDate>Mon, 10 Jan 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2022-01-10/</guid><description>7 ppl attended
Organisational matters We moved to the VoIP software zoom for our meetings after various technical difficulties with jitsi in the last meeting. Internet connection issues in this meeting again caused problems, though. Conferences, meetings and sessions International Mountain Conference 2022 (11.09. to 15.09.): Francesco Carrer hosts the session ID20: Geospatial technologies in mountain archaeology and invited us to submit papers. CAA2022 (09.08. - 11.08.): We discussed if and how the SIG should participate and came up with two events, which should generally cover the topics collaborative working, community building, commons &amp;amp; codes of conduct within the archaeological, scientific community and how modern, digital tools can help.</description></item><item><title>14th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-12-06/</link><pubDate>Mon, 06 Dec 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-12-06/</guid><description>10 ppl attended
Organisational matters the next meeting will take place on the 10th January
Francesco Carrer will give a short intro on the tools for spatial statistics he&amp;rsquo;s been developing
Conferences, meetings and sessions CAA2022: The conference will probably take place in July (announcement via twitter ), but no exact dates have been released yet SIG activities Teaching material list: Sophie Schmidt has shared a google document in the respective slack channel.</description></item><item><title>13th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-11-01/</link><pubDate>Mon, 01 Nov 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-11-01/</guid><description>8 ppl attended
Organisational matters The twitter team asks for input. Please see the etherpad document here: https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/ssla-tweets Reminder that we have a Google calendar and everyody is invited to add relevant events in and around computational archaeology: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=uitkaq4o6b90gbcca2bh1qqa3g%40group.calendar.google.com Conferences, meetings and sessions CAA2022: To our knowledge the conference date is still unknown Georg Roth forwarded an invitation to a math lecture related to geometric morphometrics: https://www.math-berlin.de/academics/bms-fridays. The relevant working group has a website here: https://morphomatics.</description></item><item><title>12th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-10-04/</link><pubDate>Mon, 04 Oct 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-10-04/</guid><description>6 ppl attended
Organisational matters Following a doodle poll we decided to try another regular meeting date for the following months: The first monday every month, 17pm, CEST. Please see the google calendar for more information. Conferences, meetings and sessions In October 2021:
New Approaches in Digital Archaeology: https://archaeology.nsc.ru/events/nada Theoretical Approaches to Computational Archaeology: http://www.prehistoire.org/offres/gestion/actus_515_42365-911/theoretical-approaches-to-computational-archaeology.html Please remeber to add these and other new events to the SIG&amp;rsquo;s Google calendar.
SIG activities Teaching material list Sophie Schmidt will now create a Google sheet document to collect information Ideally every SIG member should invest 10 minutes of brainstorming to collect teaching resources The list will then be sorted by the core members of the teaching list committee Show and tell Martin Hinz: API and R API packages on the example of XRONOS Website: https://www.</description></item><item><title>11th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-09-03/</link><pubDate>Fri, 03 Sep 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-09-03/</guid><description>6 ppl attended
Organisational matters Zack Batist already sent out an invitation to the Google calendar on the mailing list. Everybody has read permissions to embed the calendar with their own ones, but only explicitly approved SIG members will get editing permissions to prevent abuse. Zack manages the permissions We postponed the discussion about moving the meeting timeslot once more. If somebody is affected and thus can&amp;rsquo;t raise the issue in the meeting, please make us aware on the mailing list or the slack channel Conferences, meetings and sessions There are a number of interesting, upcoming conferences/meetings:</description></item><item><title>10th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-08-06/</link><pubDate>Fri, 06 Aug 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-08-06/</guid><description>4 ppl attended
Organisational matters The steering committee election cycle was set to two years with a three month overlap period. The next election will therefore be in October 2022 The &amp;ldquo;How to become a SIG SSLA member&amp;rdquo; document discussed in the last meeting is online now: https://sslarch.github.io/documents/becoming_a_member As an experiment we introduce a new recurring point of order &amp;ldquo;Show and tell&amp;rdquo; for our monthly meetings, that replaces/enhances &amp;ldquo;Open exchange about activities and software updates&amp;rdquo;.</description></item><item><title>9th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-07-02/</link><pubDate>Fri, 02 Jul 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-07-02/</guid><description>13 ppl attended
Organisational matters Duration of the SIG SSLA steering committee election cycle We did not make a decision about this when we elected the commitee The members present in this meeting have no strong opinion about the matter Ideally the full committee would not be replaced at once. Instead a certain overlap of members should uphold continuity The current committee (Martin Hinz, Sophie Schmidt, Clemens Schmid) will prepare a suggestion for the next meeting &amp;ldquo;How to join&amp;rdquo; instructions Martin Hinz prepared a guide with steps for new members to formally join the SIG Everybody liked it - except for the name &amp;ldquo;Boarding guide&amp;rdquo;, which should be changed (according to the native speakers) A link to the document can be found in the Slack channel The document is available for review until 2021-07-08.</description></item><item><title>8th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-06-04/</link><pubDate>Fri, 04 Jun 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-06-04/</guid><description>9 ppl attended
CAA2021 Annual general meeting As every year the CAA conference will feature the society&amp;rsquo;s AGM The SIG-SSLA will have to give a short report Sophie Schmidt will take over this duty Session S17 Everything is well prepared Joe Roe updated the homepage accordingly: https://sslarch.github.io/sessions/sessioni The paper abstracts are available in the Github Repo: https://github.com/sslarch/caa2021_packages/tree/main/papers Twitter The SIG account team will try to be very active by life-tweeting sessions amplifying the voices of active community members A useful addition to the toolset might be tweetdeck: https://tweetdeck.</description></item><item><title>7th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-05-14/</link><pubDate>Fri, 14 May 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-05-14/</guid><description>6 ppl attended
Organisational issues Twitter account @CAA-SSLA Is still very actively maintained The Twitter subcommittee will have another organisational meeting soon As usual everybody is invited to join (contact via Slack channel) Slack workspace sslarch There is not too much activity in the open channels, but many use the workspace for peer-to-peer communcation or discussions among smaller groups Upcoming conferences, meetings and sessions CAA2021 The current conference schedule has some drawbacks - we hope for an updated version that does not split our S17 over two days Workshop S31 Sophie Schmidt, Petr Pajdla and Clemens Schmid will soon meet to define the exact outline of the workshop Multiple other SIG members offered to join the workshop as helpers and participants Open exchange about activities and software updates Extension OpenArchaeo [SIG Project]</description></item><item><title>6th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-04-09/</link><pubDate>Fri, 09 Apr 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-04-09/</guid><description>12 ppl attended
Agenda Organisational matters 1.1. Update on the Twitter activities 1.2. Website update Upcoming conferences, meetings and sessions 2.1. news on the two sessions at CAA international Open exchange about activities and software updates 3.1. Little minions @SSLA 3.2 new developments / tools etc 3.3 news on the working group Ordination and chronology ? Any other business? 1. Organisational matters 1.1 Twitter everything&amp;rsquo;s running smooth Aim to be locus of discussion is met Martin, Sophie and Zack prepare tweets everyone: please join in creating content: links, ideas, things to share, what ever you come up with!</description></item><item><title>5th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-03-05/</link><pubDate>Fri, 05 Mar 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-03-05/</guid><description>7 ppl attended
Organisational issues Twitter account update According to the plans made during the last meeting, the twitter team followed a more strategic approach this month This increased both activity and interaction with followers The plan for the next months can be summarised as: More engagement and less promotion to act less as entertainers and more like moderators (for meaningful user-user interaction) This will also include cooperation with https://twitter.com/Rchaeology1, who is working on a twitter list of archaeologists using R Update of the homepage Joe did further work on the homepage frontend The changes could be merged into the master branch immediately Some details could be cleaned out in a group effort after this merge State of the discussion: https://github.</description></item><item><title>4th regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-02-02/</link><pubDate>Tue, 02 Feb 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-02-02/</guid><description>8 ppl attended
Organisational issues Twitter account experiences After an initial peak of activity the number of tweets and retweets is now slowly dying down. But we have 217 followers! Everybody is very much invited to highlight observations that could be commented on or retweeted on the respective slack channel or the etherpad platform (https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/ssla-tweets) The twitter team considers prescheduling regular tweets e.g. based on open-archeo (https://github.com/zackbatist/open-archaeo) or the ctv-archaeology (https://github.</description></item><item><title>3rd regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-01-05/</link><pubDate>Tue, 05 Jan 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2021-01-05/</guid><description>9(+1?) ppl attended
Organisational issues Twitter account @SIG_SSLA &amp;lt;- follow me on https://twitter.com/CAA_SSLA The (first) twitter crew consists of the following members: Sophie Schmidt, Zack Batist, Martin Hinz The crew shares the password and is actively using the account according to our twitter guidelines (https://github.com/sslarch/sslarch.github.io/blob/master/twitter_guidelines.md) Input for the twitter channel can be shared on the respective Slack channel Experiences and opinions on Slack Everybody seems to be happy with the chat&amp;rsquo;s setup for now Logo Final poll among the most popular drafts 3: I 6: II 7: IIII &amp;lt;- !</description></item><item><title>2nd regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2020-12-01/</link><pubDate>Tue, 01 Dec 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2020-12-01/</guid><description>9 ppl attended
Organisational issues Twitter (some of these suggestions could become part of our Twitter guidelines) The account can be set up and should have the name CAA-SSLA Content collection can happen on our group chat The account should focus on archaeology and not so much on general developments in the scripting languages world Solid, hearty, high quality tweets should dominate Scheduling posts before posting and weekly/monthly collection posts may be powerful tools to increase impact We should post with one or multiple dedicated hashtags to allow for searching and filtering Regular tweets are better than random bursts of activity with weeks of silence in between Logo There are different preferences in the group We will organise a ranked poll to decide The winner of this survey will be announced at the next meeting Group chat software Each system has clear advantages and disadvantages For now we will set up a Slack channel Later we want to change to something more FOSS Upcoming conferences, meetings and sessions CAA2021 The SIG session &amp;ldquo;Tools for the Revolution: developing packages for scientific programming in archaeology&amp;rdquo; by Joe Roe, Martin Hinz and Clemens Schmid was submitted We did not discuss the planned, accompanying workshop Open exchange about activities and software updates Zack Batist: OpenArchaeo Update - https://open-archaeo.</description></item><item><title>1st regular meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2020-11-03/</link><pubDate>Tue, 03 Nov 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2020-11-03/</guid><description>11 ppl attended
Organisational issues Members list on sslarch.github.io fine like it is, good to see so many people there new members can add themselfes to the list with a Pull Request against the homepage repository Twitter a Twitter account would allow for better communication with non-members and official endorsements of strategic partners, e.g. other Special interest groups Sophie and Zack will prepare a draft for a guidelines/code of conduct document how to handle the twitter account and present the result at the next meeting Logo collection of drafts at https://github.</description></item><item><title>Inaugural meeting</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2020-10-06/</link><pubDate>Tue, 06 Oct 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2020-10-06/</guid><description>14 ppl attended
Voting was done using directpoll.com
Report of recent developments (~ 5 min) Approval by the CAA 2020-08-26 Provisional Transition Steering Committee (SC) of SIG-SSLA 2020-09-01 - Protocol online (https://sslarch.github.io/protocols/2020-09-01.txt) Announcement in German Scientific Newsletter any other members that know similar newsletters? -&amp;gt; please tell us so we can announce the SIG there too Collect suggestions and ideas from members A running list of interesting projects and packages will be published on Github (Zack Batist) A monthly (virtual) meeting to report on (Clemens Schmid) current developments in SSLA in archaeology talk about new versions, new packages, new libraries, version updates field is not that large, so we could create an overview of that Growth and diversity of the group (Ben Marwick, Martin Hinz) growth of the group - introduce members to SSLA by creating semi-formal cooperations with other groups society of archaeological sciences has connections to society of black archaeologists.</description></item><item><title>Meeting of the Provisional Steering Committee</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2020-09-01/</link><pubDate>Tue, 01 Sep 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2020-09-01/</guid><description>Participants: Sophie Schmidt Zack Batist Clemens Schmid Martin Hinz Activities currently necessary: Information mail via the mailing list Organise an inaugural meeting Establish regular meetings Outreach inaugural meeting The inaugural meeting should be the kick-off for regular meetings (see below).
agenda:
Report of recent developments Collect suggestions and ideas from members Set the modus operandi Present potential candidates for the SC Election of the Steering Committee Positions to be filled are:</description></item><item><title>CAA2019 Roundtable Discussion</title><link>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2019-04-24/</link><pubDate>Wed, 24 Apr 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2019-04-24/</guid><description>Introductory Statements
Martin Hinz: Stay DRY! Why scientific scripting speeds up research, fosters more interesting science and helps save taxpayers money.
Lizzy Scholtus: Scripting languages community: an important tool to develop the existence of these techniques
Joe Roe: The boundary between &amp;ldquo;scientific programming&amp;rdquo; and &amp;ldquo;software development&amp;rdquo;
Iza Romanowska: Who are Research Software Engineers and why should we care?
Clemens Schmid: (Don&amp;rsquo;t Fear) The Reaper. A SIG as long term software maintenance network?</description></item></channel></rss>